[Applause]
it's very good to see you
congratulations on the book I'm sure it
is a lot of work and then when it comes
out I'm sure it's very satisfying maybe
not I'm doing myself in many many years
since I had six years since my last book
we'll talk about the title of the book
talking to strangers and yeah the book
is all about this idea that we think all
the tools we have for making sense of
our friends betray us when we talk to
strangers so we're really good if I know
you really well I have a whole series of
strategies I use to kind of understand
you to code your behavior unconsciously
unconsciously unconscious okay but then
if I transfer those same strategies to
someone who's a stranger you go off in
all kinds of weird and random directions
and you end up making all kinds of grave
mistakes and the book is about it's a
whole series of stories about all the
ways in which are our strategies for
dealing with strangers later so I
thought that's true and I have my own
kind of experiences that have led me to
that and like I've had you know you walk
out and I'll see the audience and most
everyone is clapping and happy and then
you meet a guy you see a guy who's got
his arms folded and I inevitably will
zero in on that person about that one
start talking to that person and then in
the guy says I'm just real excited to be
here you know I watched the trailer die
and you go oh I thought you were
unfriendly and it turns out I was just
wrong and what the word the technical
work that is some of that person is
mismatched mm-hmm so matched is where so
Anthony Anderson who was just here is
perfectly matched mm-hmm when he was
when he's excited he looks excited right
when he was you know telling that kind
of story you you got the sense that as
you looked at his facial expression and
his body language
it was perfectly in harmony with the way
he felt inside but he wasn't there
wasn't a kind of discrepancy between
those two things the guy in the audience
like this who's having a great time is
mismatched and we have trouble with
people who are mismatched but lots of
people are mean actors aren't miss Matt
you can't be a mismatched actor one of
the things you talk about is friends the
show which is maybe the most popular
show of all time in the history of
television and you
say that the friends is lying to us and
friends friends is deeply misleading so
the thing about they weren't stocks of
friends is if you describe if you try
and describe the plot of an episode it's
like impossible
it's like if you diagrams it on a flow
chart it would take up pages you know
Monica does this and like Phoebe and
then Rachel goes off in this direction
but known as ever watch an episode of
friends at the end said you know I they
lost me why what's this how do you
explain this paradox and the explanation
is that everyone on Friends is perfectly
matched so when Phoebe is surprised her
jaw drops her eyes go wide and her
eyebrows go up right when Ross is
perplexed as he often is he's like he
looks exactly like a perplexed person is
supposed to look so like you watch the
show you could turn the sound off I've
done this turn the sound off on an
episode you haven't seen before and then
at the end of it ask yourself did I know
what was going on totally you will know
what's going on but the whole point is
that's not real life no one behaves that
way in real it's like the emoji of shows
in a way no it is so they if you all you
do as many of us do is watch TV shows
like friends right you come away with
this totally phoney picture of the real
world and people we think we know how to
read like people a lot of people poker
players whatever take real pride in
being able to read are you saying that
we none of us really can or they are
they're experts that really can read
other people so the there's a huge
amount of psychological research on this
and the bottom line is that human beings
are universally with like a tiny number
of exceptions terrible at telling what a
summit is telling them the truth
really we just can't do it we all have
all these pretend things like the person
you know looks to the left and that's a
tell it's just not total nonsense right
basically everything you learn on those
mind Hunter blade you know cop shows
about how the savvy FBI guy can tell
what it's just complete and utter
nonsense you they can do tests where you
have a a seasoned FBI agent and you show
a series of you know videotapes were
half or people lying and half a people
telling the truth and you say Tommy
which is which and they can't do it
really again this is all there no better
than anybody other than anybody else
Wow real so this is a one of those
little fictions but imagine what
television cop shows would be like if
they accurately reflected human behavior
so at the end of the Law & Order episode
are like the mind happy the FBI agent
will be like I no idea you couldn't know
none of those shows you'd never be like
the third act of the show when they wrap
it they couldn't wrap it up display
what about judges judges who sit there
and they talk like Judge Judy for
instance who sits there and talks to one
person after another and that's to
determine who's telling the truth and
who isn't
no not even judge not even I mean I I
feel bad for like I don't wanna harsh on
you you see the single around yeah but
she'll come at you also remember they're
like selecting I mean how many how many
people does she judge and then they
picked like the two that are the most
impressive we all sit either yeah we
don't see the 20 times when she totally
got it wrong I don't know I get the idea
they're using every every minute of
judging as being is being used on Samara
efficient but this you know you what's
interesting of course is it you talk to
strangers for a living mmm-hmm right so
I would be really mean every single
night your may not always be doing some
of the first time but often right you've
never Boston Times and I talk to a lot
of strangers outside of the show oh I
mean I probably owe this weekend I
probably talked to 250 strangers maybe
350 for coming up not you actively
searching out strangers yeah no yeah I
was I was in the intersection I stand on
the intersection here and I say I'm on
TV everybody
no way I took a lot of strangers and I
do feel like I get a sense of them but
maybe I'm not
well you're the love it though is people
are really you're very very nicely
matched it will say oh thank you it's
that good you know you don't have any
secret agendas
like if you're happy when you're engaged
I think you look engaged uh-huh
so I think people respond to that when
they when strangers come up to you in
the street they're like I think I
understand what's going on inside
Jimmy's heart Oh what is going on in
there a lot of cholesterol and my um you
know every time I think this is my third
time on the show yeah every time you
send me a picture uh-huh right framed it
comes to my house right and my cleaning
lady she someone she's very aggressive
in how she which pictures she puts up on
the mantel and she will always take down
the ones of my family and put up the 100
connection with you she's like hell with
like mom it's Jimmy that I feel like I
could because I don't come over and mess
up the guest room with my parents down
and then Jimmy gets turned up connecting
I'm gonna write something specifically
to her
[Laughter]
in your books this one is called talking
the strangers it's out now Malcolm
Gladwell everybody hi I'm Jimmy Kimmel
if you want to see all our latest videos
click the subscribe button and if you
don't click anyway and close your eyes
when they come on